---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: true
keywords: []
description: Some stories end with a heart attack. Not this one.
datePublished: '2015-11-13T20:29:31.371Z'
dateModified: '2015-11-13T20:29:22.980Z'
title: "Let's start with a heart attack."
sourcePath: _posts/2015-11-13-52cc854b-8955-4c27-81e2-0260dbb2a147.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: 52cc854b-8955-4c27-81e2-0260dbb2a147/index.html
_type: Article

---
Someone's story often ends with a heart attack. I'm going to start mine with one. I was muskie fishing at a remote lake in western Maryland when I suddenly found a 4-foot fish thrashing about at my feet. It was the first time I ever encountered a muskie, and of course, I got excited. Maybe a little too excited. I started sweating profusely, a fact which didn't really surprise me given that it was 93 degrees in the middle of August. I was also breathing heavily. Well, of course I was, there was a muskie at my feet! The fact that my chest was pounding didn't seem unwarranted given the circumstance. But after the fish spit the hook and took off for deeper waters, I was still sweating and my heart was still struggling. After making another dozen casts, I started to think I ought to call it a day.

My car was all the way on the other side of the lake, and the one-mile walk around started to look like a long hike. By now, I was aware that something in my chest wasn't right, and I fumbled for my cell phone to get some help. No bars. That wasn't going help. Obviously, I was going to have to walk the whole way around and there was no one else within sight. I started the trek, slowly putting one foot in front of the other through the long grasses. Halfway around the lake I found myself on the ground.

I knew I was in trouble, and that death was close at hand. I said aloud, "God, I want to live. God, I want to live." But God's answer was to lodge even more pain into my jaw, contorting my face. Through my grimace, I cried out, "God, I want to live with Carol Ann!"

I'm sorry, had I not mentioned that I married a living saint? Carol Ann is a church organist who regularly speaks with the Almighty about what music she should play on any given Sunday, and more often than not, He answers her. I should imagine the two are on a first name basis. And so when I invoked the name of my lovely wife, God responded in the form of a cool breeze on a blistering hot afternoon. The pain in my jaw subsided, and in ten minutes I was back on my feet. Another ten minutes went by before I could start walking back to the car again. All told, it took me an hour to get to the car, and another two hours before I pulled into the Emergency Room.

Our local hospital had just built a new cath lab, but no one knew how to use it, so they were bringing in a doctor from GW to teach them. He was one of the doctors who had repeatedly saved Dick Cheney during his multiple heart attacks. He came up to Hagerstown once a week from DC, and as luck (?) would have it, this was that day. He discovered I had thrown a blood clot that had completely blocked my right coronary artery, and two other arteries were closed down 80% as well. Three stents later, I was asking him if he ever had second thoughts about saving Cheney.

Now, a lot of people might give up fishing after that, but as you might have guessed, I am not a lot of people. Besides, I married a living saint. How bad could it get? So I decided to tempt the fates, and keep on fishing. And to keep on the good side of Carol Ann!